README.md, before:

# Eaze Growth Engineer Homework

Our Front End code challenge for growth engineering applicants.

## Project

We would like you to build a web app that displays the trending GIFs on [Giphy](https://giphy.com/). 
Users visiting the website should be able to search for GIFs and see a list of results. The user should be able to expand a GIF and see its details (username, rating, anything you think could be relevant).

Users should have a good user experience on desktop, tablet and mobile devices.

This project is pretty open ended in order to leave you some freedom to improve upon the base by focusing on what you like the most.

One of the top priorities for a growth engineer at Eaze is to optimize various UI/UX components to drive user acquisition and retention. In this project, we would like you to pick two components of your app and write A/B tests for them. Make sure that you tests are built to optimize for user enagagement, such as opening GIFs and viewing GIFs. What tooling would you use and why? What sort of results do you expect from your test and how would you track them? Don't worry about gathering statistics, just focus on setting up your tests.

Here are some examples of components you could test, but feel free to think of your own:
- When the user scrolls the page to the bottom, load new GIFs automatically.
- Changing the way the GIFs are sorted.
- Displaying rating and other meta data before clicking into the GIF.

### Project Structure

We've included all of the boilerplate to get started with this project using [create-react-app](https://github.com/facebookincubator/create-react-app), feel free to use this structure if you'd like. If you'd prefer a different project structure, go ahead and make any changes you like.

### Submission Instructions

Via Email: Please send us a link to a public Github repo of your solution code base. Do not send an attachment. Send us a write up of your A/B test via a Google Drive link, a Dropbox Paper link, or a link to a Markdown file in your Github repo.

### Evaluation

The app should run on any computer by running `npm install` and `npm start`.
We’ll evaluate the exercise by looking at the end result and the code.

### Coding at Eaze

At [Eaze](https://www.eaze.com) we strive for writing simple, maintainable and clean code. 

We prefer simplicity over complexity.

We comment our code and commit often.

We love our users and we really care about providing a good user experience and pleasant UI.

We encourage out of the box thinking and we love to be impressed!

Commit message:

added readme and a/b test writeup

README.md, after:

This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app).

## Available Scripts

In the project directory, you can run:

### `npm install`

Installs all relevant dependencies necessary to run application

### `npm start`

Runs the app in the development mode.<br>
Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in the browser.

The page will reload if you make edits.<br>
You will also see any lint errors in the console.

## Dependencies

react-ab-test

## Reflection

# Description

Web app that displays the trending GIFs on Giphy. Responsively designed to work on mobile, tablet, and desktop. Users can also search for gifs and see results. On hovering, the user can see more information about the gif.

# Features

This app includes dependency-free infinite scrolling. A/B testing is implemented with the support of the react-ab-test library. First, there is an A/B experiment that is part of the SearchContainer component. This component varies the color of the submit button, and emits a win on the basis of the clicking of the button. Second, there is an A/B experiment as part of the TrendingInfiniteColumn component. We run one variant where the username is visible, and one without. Wins are emitted on the basis of clicking the outbound link for the particular gif on Giphy.com.

# Challenges and Hurdles

In the process of completing the Eaze Growth Engineer Homework, I encountered various challenges, and I tried my best to solve them in the most effective way possible. Though I had some experience using React prior to this project, the Eaze Growth Engineer Homework web app was the most complex react app I have coded till today. One of the primary challenges in this app was dealing with the information that was communicated via the Giphy API. This was the first time I used the Giphy API, so I had to solve many of my problems through trial-and-error. Additionally, I chose to design the app so that the trending results would populate the window by default, and the search results would populate the window as soon as the user began typing. This led to some complications in debugging when managing the state of the app. Another complexity that was a part of the project was creating a responsive app. Because the app receives a set of gif objects of various sizes, this provided some challenge in terms of how to effectively render them to the screen, and still provide a responsive experience. To deal with this, I used the 'fixed_height' version of the gif that the Giphy API provides. Additionally, I used media-queries to adjust the width of the images and column-count styling for the ```<ul>``` element that was core to the TrendingInfiniteColumn component. The most difficult part of this assignment was implementing the A/B testing. Though I had some prior knowledge about the methodology behind A/B testing, this was the first time I had implemented it within my own project. To overcome this, I completed research online to understand better how to write effective A/B tests. To aid in my implementation of A/B testing, I used the react-ab-test library. From my experience, there were many commercial options available for A/B testing web apps, and this seemed to be the best and most effectively documented open-source option. In addition to integrating a simple A/B test, one of the challenges was integrating two A/B tests on separate components, as specified in the assignment description. The documentation for react-ab-test was quite good, however slightly confusing in terms of how to implement tests on multiple components. Though I did integrate A/B tests on two components, this process was relatively complicated, and I spent a significant amount of time debugging related issues.

# Optimizations and Improvements

Given the opportunity to improve this web app, there are several features/optimizations that I could add. Firstly, I would migrate the styling to a Sass-based workflow. This would allow more efficient styling, improved reuse of code, and fewer bugs overall. Secondly, I would seek to improve the implementation of the infinite scrolling feature. The TrendingInfiniteColumn component relied on a ```<ul>``` element, populated with ```<li>``` elements that were the result of the Trending API request. To provide responsive sizing, I modified column-count and width style attributes, depending on the result of the media-query. Though this did work, one of the side-effects of this implementation was that images would be populated in the columns left-to-right. While this was not so noticeable on mobile, this created a column that was momentarily empty until populated by the results of the API request. Additionally, another improvement I could have added would have been to migrate the API information (keys, endpoints, parameters) to a json file, external to the React components that relied on them. With the help of utility functions, I could have created methods such as buildUrl(), which would take parameters such as trending/search, api_key, limit, offset, rating, etc. This would reduce the unnecessary code that was required for building the parameter passed to the fetch() method.
